2013/09/05

https://www.interactivebrokers.com/en/software/tws/usersguidebook/technicalanalytics/market_scanner_types.htm

*30-day (V30) Implied Volatilities:

Implied volatility is calculated using a 100-step binary tree for American style options, 
and a Black-Scholes model for European style options. Interest rates are calculated 
using the settlement prices from the day’s Eurodollar futures contracts, and dividends are based on historical payouts.

The 30-day volatility is the at-market volatility estimated for a maturity thirty calendar days 
forward of the current trading day. It is based on option prices from two consecutive expiration months. 
The first expiration month is that which has at least eight calendar days to run. The implied volatility 
is estimated for the eight options on the four closest to market strikes in each expiry. The implied 
volatilities are fit to a parabola as a function of the strike price for each expiry. The at-the-market 
implied volatility for an expiry is then taken to be the value of the fit parabola at the expected future 
price for the expiry. A linear interpolation (or extrapolation, as required) of the 30-day variance based 
on the squares of the at-market volatilities is performed. V30 is then the square root of the estimated 
variance. If there is no first expiration month with less than sixty calendar days to run, we do not calculate a V30.

2012/12/29

Black Scholes And Beyond

pg 16 Dividends:  ex-dividend date The date on which buyers of a stock are no longer elibigble to recieve the next dividend payment.
pg 23 Riskless Zero Coupon Bond interest rate calculation.  
  interest rate goes up, bond value goes down; 
  interest rates go down, bond value goes up
  http://iris.nyit.edu/appack/pdf/FINC201_5.pdf calculating values of zero coupon bond

pg 47 The only dates on which it will ever be 
       optimal to exercise an American option are those dates immediately prior to ex-dividend dates

pg 163 raises the question of how to forecast the volatility, forecast volatility direction?

pg 180 formula summaries

pg 224 has a lead into on how some option price forecasting.  Volatility can change based upon trending price patterns.  
  Elsewhere there is a statement that high volatility leads to low volatility, and low volatility leads to high volatility
  With transition probabilites, is it possible to forecast stock movements?

pg 227 flexible trees all changes in volatility to be modelled

pg 228 discusses probabilistic model of stock returns, where as discussions of BSM indicated returns are not part of the model
  * start with this idea:  next price is probability of up move plus 1-p probability of down move

pg 231 local volatility

pg 247 review forward interest rates, something isn't making sense

pg 265 Arrow-Debreu price of a node

pg 271 Arrow-Debreu prices and butterfly spreads

pg 403 direction forecasting?