2019/03/30

_0471547387 2017 Mathematics of Money Management: Risk Analysis Techniques for Traders

A market system can be further differentiated by other factors, one of
which is dependency. For example, say that in our moving average system
we discern (through methods discussed in this text) that winning trades
beget losing trades and vice versa. We would, therefore, break our moving
average system on any given market into two distinct market systems. One
of the market systems would take trades only after a loss (because of the
nature of this dependency, this is a more advantageous system), the other
market system only after a profit. 
-- page xix Mathematics of Money Management

Pyramiding (adding on contracts throughout the course of a trade) is
viewed in a money management sense as separate, distinct market systems
rather than as the original entry. 

Each separate add-on should be treated as a
separate market system. There is a big benefit in doing this. The benefit is
that the techniques discussed in this book will yield the optimal quantities
to have on for a given market system as a function of the level of equity in
your account. 

we must marry modern portfolio theory
(which gives us optimal weights) with the notion of optimal quantity (optimal f) 
to arrive at a truly optimal portfolio.

In a nonleveraged situation, such as a portfolio of stocks that are not on
margin, weighting and quantity are synonymous, but in a leveraged situa-
tion, such as a portfolio of futures market systems, weighting and quantity
are different indeed. In this book you will see an idea first roughly intro-
duced in Portfolio Management Formulas, that optimal quantities are what
we seek to know, and that this is a function of optimal weightings.

 risk management is about decision-making
strategies that seek to maximize the ratio of potential reward to potential
risk within a given acceptable level of risk.

 Ultimately, we have no control over whether the
next trade will be profitable or not. Yet we do have control over the quantity
we have on. Since one does not dominate the other, our resources are better
spent concentrating on putting on the right quantity.

 if dependency shows up in your trades, you haven't
maximized your system. In other words, dependency, if found, should be
exploited (by changing the rules of the system to take advantage of the
dependency) until it no longer appears to exist. The first stage in money
management is therefore to exploit, and hence remove, any dependency in
trades. pg 14

The Kelly criterion states that we should bet that fixed fraction of our
stake (f) which maximizes the growth function G(f) page 27

iterative calculation of f - page 32

Along these same lines, reducing big winning trades can help your pro-
gram if it reduces your SD more than it reduces your A. In many cases, this
can be accomplished by incorporating options into your trading program - page 59

 Such a position, a long position in the underlying and a long put, is
the equivalent to simply being outright long the call. Hence, we are better
off simply to be long the call, as it will result in considerably lower transac-
tion costs7 than being both long the underlying and long the put option. - page 60


2018/02/10

http://www.wildml.com/2018/02/introduction-to-learning-to-trade-with-reinforcement-learning/

2012/11/20
http://stockgumshoe.com/reviews/macro-trader/silvers-historic-price-glitch-will-it-jump-to-208-in-six-months/
I follow about 75 gold/silver producers. Calculate a couple of ratios to find better values. In my opinion, the articles Hamilton of Zeal research wrote about the gold/silver ratios are FAR better than what the folks have written. He says to buy silver when the ratio gets above 55 and to sell when it drops to less than 45. Easy enough.

2012/10/22
Get historical open interest.  Look at symbols with significant changes.  Use as indicator as how to trade.  
On equities, I believe it means borrowed securities for shorts.
On options, means how many have been written.

See GTSCalp notes for more stuff
Also see there for Intra Day Arms charts
Also see there for MarketProfile, DeltaMarker
