
/*
 *
 * PROFITING WITH IRON CONDOR OPTIONS STRATEGIES  
FROM THE FRONTLINE FOR TRADING IN UP OR DOWN MARKETS
Michael Hanania Benklifa.

 *
 * First Printing January 2011
 * ISBN-10: 0-13-708551-6

 * foreword:  the trade is somewhat asymmetrical
because volatility falls in a rising market but rises in a
falling market. Adjustments on the call side should,
therefore, be handled differently than adjustments on
the put side.

 * page 36
 *  The way to calculate
the projected stock volatility for one day is to take the
IV and divide by the square root of 256, which is the
number of trading days in a year. Since the square root
of 256 is 16, the rule of thumb is to divide the implied
volatility number by 16, and that will give you a 1 stan-
dard deviation move for one day. So if your implied
volatility is 32%, divide 32% by 16 and you get 2%.
Therefore, in one day there is a 68% chance the stock
will make a 2% move. If you want to know how much
the price could move on a different time scale, the for-
mula is IV divided by 16 times the square root of the
number of days in question.
 *
 *  goal with con-
dors is to sell far out-of-the-money options.
 *
 * Liquidity also affects the bid-ask spread.
You want to trade condors on underlying stocks that
experience a large volume of shares traded each day, and
high open interest, so pricing stays reasonable without
huge spreads between the bid and the ask.

 * need to check the open interest during the spread validation phase
 *
 * The sophisticated investor knows the Beta of his
portfolio. Beta is the relationship of the stock or portfo-
lio to the overall market or S&P 500. A Beta of 1 means
if the market moves up or down 1%, then the stock
should correspondingly move up or down 1%.
 *
 *  So if you hold many
stocks in your portfolio, the entire holding has its own
net collective Beta.

 * You could hedge your entire portfolio based on its
Beta by buying the right number of puts on the S&P
500. You would be wise to always know the Beta of
your portfolio with this hedging solution in mind. It
explains why your portfolio may be outperforming or
underperforming the market.

 *
 *  Implied
volatility is the market prediction of future movement
derived from the option’s price, and statistical volatility
is a measure of past movement. Comparing these two
types of volatility, what was predicted versus what actu-
ally happened, is useful for deciding what underlying
stocks to trade.

 *
 * It is reasonable at this stage to confirm that in fact
IV is historically higher than SV. After establishing that
this is the norm, you can move forward and feel com-
fortable selling options on the underlying stock. The
past is no prologue for the future, but what you’re look-
ing for is a probability in your favor so that you are
confident enough to commit to trading in the index.

 *
 * page 55 onwards have more charts and figures
 *  Since you have
ruled out stocks, you are interested only in which indexes
are the most likely to report the necessary skew.
 *
 * page 62 A perfect condor strategy is one in which the trader
knows exactly how many days away from expiration he
should put in his trade, exactly which strikes to sell in
his vertical spreads, and the correct amount of credit he
wants for the trade.
 *
 * The immediate enemy of Theta is volatility or
Vega.
 *
 *  If the value of the con-
dor goes up because of volatility, it can become more
expensive to “buy” back the condor you sold.
 *
 *  Your goal may be to keep only one-third
of the initial credit and then buy to close the condor. Use
this “keep one third as profit” as your objective to evaluate the three approaches.

 * The only thing they have in common is
that the Deltas of the options sold are approximately 10.

 *
 * eg: With a
Theta of 1.4, it would take about 30 days for the con-
dor to deteriorate
 *
 *  page 65 A 1%
increase in volatility would eat up 11 days of time
decay.
 *
 * At what point does the Vega-to-Theta ratio become
too large? Your goal is to capture relatively small prof-
its and give up the rest, hopefully in a 2- to 4-week
period. Sometimes this is just as possible with a longer-
term option trade as a shorter-term trade. If Theta or
Vega were your only concerns, you could just sell con-
dors as close as possible to expiration. Although this
strategy is doable, it is not recommended.

 *
 *  A drop in volatility translates to a
quick profit.
 *
 * page 66 If you spot an unusual spike in volatility on a particular
day, it might be a great time to sell a condor.
 *
 *  In this scenario,
you could potentially sell a condor on a volatility spike
and even buy to close the same day and make a nice
profit. On the other hand, just because volatility jumps,
it doesn’t necessarily mean that volatility will go back
down immediately. Very frequently a jump in volatility
is also a precursor to a few more large moves in volatil-
ity. Either way, it’s a chance you take. Usually, the odds
are in your favor if the market panics and overreacts.
 *
 *  For exam-
ple, many traders jump back in the market the day after
expiration.
 *
 * ” If the market is trending, make sure that your con-
dor has room to accommodate both the trend and a
sudden reversal.
 *
 * . The other
danger is when the market rebounds up too quickly.
This is called Gamma risk and that can overcome both
Theta and Vega.

 *
 * One of the most popular statistical indicators is
Bollinger Bands. The bands illustrate a 2 standard devi-
ation move up or down, based on a 20-day moving
average of price. Price has a 95% statistical chance of
remaining within the range. Bollinger Bands can be use-
ful in a sideways market when the bands are above and
below the price range. But when the price trends sharply
up or down, the bands can be to the left and right of the
price, which is not helpful when you’re trying to iden-
tify a range. Prices that break out of the bands tend to
find their way back. This is not true every time because
Bollinger Bands are a lagging indicator, and if there is a
dramatic shift in market sentiment price can travel a
long time along the upper or lower band.

 *
So big volatility spikes through the
Bollinger Bands can be viewed as temporary aberrations
and will revert to the mean. Pure volatility traders seek
these spikes to sell options and buy to close when
volatility drops.

 *
 * At-the-money call option volatility is the usual reference
point when referring to a stock’s or index’s implied volatility

 *
 * Bollinger bands ona volatiltiy chart - sell at the edges
 *
 *
 *
 * Support and resistance lines are very useful but not
specifically as support and resistance. They are useful if
you consider them as magnets. Markets tend to move
quickly to test previous highs and lows. The underlying
reason is probably due to the volume of stop and buy
orders at round numbers or previous highs or lows.

 * f you buy a stock, you have a 50/50 chance
that the stock price will move up. Delta for the at-the-
money call and put is approximately 50%. Because of
this, option traders think of Delta in terms of percent-
age probabilities as a rule of thumb.
 *
 *
 * beauty of Delta is that the market tells you
specifically what it thinks are the probabilities of a spe-
cific price being reached on expiration day.
 *
 *  Delta gives you the market’s
best guess at a specific point in time.

 *
 * Starting with price, you want your condor to have
short strikes as far out as possible. You may focus on
the Delta 10 of both the put and call short strikes. A
Delta 10 says that a $1 move affects the price by only
10 cents per $1 market move.
 *
 *
 *  Keeping
one-third or one-quarter of the credit is much easier
than waiting long enough to capture half of the credit.
The object is to make money and get out of the position
as soon as possible.

 *
 * A good strategy, therefore, is to enter a trade is to
wait for a jump in implied volatility
 *
 * The goal here is to make a
volatility trade. If it fails, the volatility trade can revert
to a time-decay trade.
 *
 *  third approach is to measure the standard devi-
ation in the change in the price  and decide to sell only if the change is greater
than 2 standard deviations.

 *
 *  Gains made from drops
in volatility like this almost always outpace losses from
the quick move in price. That advantage can evaporate
if you wait too long and the price continues to rise; then
you become a victim of Gamma.

 *
 * 1.Get a minimum of $3 credit or greater for the trade,
which is 12% return on margin.
 * 2. Deltas should be 10 or less if possible but never
greater than 12.
 * 3.Expiration day must be no closer than 49 days.
 * 6. Get in on a day when the volatility is spiking up
(that is, a down day).

 *
 * Uptrending markets are the scariest and most diffi-
cult to trade. There is always the fear that the day after
you enter the trade the market will take a sharp down-
turn and volatility will work strongly against you, so
you may hesitate to put in the trade. This trepidation is
why it is best to wait until a down move in the market
if possible. You want drops in volatility to work for you
to hedge against rapid up moves, or Gamma, in the
market.

 *
 * So why not stay through expiration? One reason is
Gamma. Think of Gamma as a slide, and the steeper the
slider, the quicker you lose money. Gamma can turn the
trade against you very quickly.

 *
 * The first consideration is profit. After you decide
how much profit you are shooting for, you can make a
hard and fast rule to exit with that profit. In fact, the
best thing you can do is place a limit order to buy to
close the condor at a specific price that is good until
cancelled (GTC) immediately after you open the condor.
If you make the decision in advance, you prevent your-
self from staying in the trade too long.

 *
 * The second consideration is time left until expira-
tion. Buy to close the condor approximately a month
before expiration, as a general standard. T
 *
 * The third consideration is knowing where you are on
the P&L curve. Are you at break-even? Or at midpoint?
Take your profits when the position moves from break-
even into the profit zone. Don’t hesitate. Price can move
into a profitable position and then move back out
sharply.
 *
 * . You can
never go broke taking a profit.

 *
 * edge, is buying to close condors right before the long
weekend when the Theta decay is discounted from the
price of the options. Prices will start to decline after
about midday on Fridays or the day prior to the holi-
days and will be likely to drop quickly in the final few
minutes of the trading day, in particular the 15 minutes
after 4 PM. On the other hand, the time decay over long
weekends is a good reason to try to sell condors at least
two to three days before the holidays and before the
long weekend starts lowering option prices.

 *
 * You may look for an opportunity to buy to close your
condor within 2 to 4 weeks after selling it and at least a
month before expiration.
 *
 * When prices are falling quickly, buying to close puts
is like catching a falling knife. It can be done, but it is
going to hurt. The best time to adjust the put spread is
when the market rallies. Even in a down market you can
have huge intraday rallies. Use these rallies as opportu-
nities to make your adjustments.

 *
 * . Intraday moves can have tremendous effects on the
price of options, and you have to be ready to take advan-
tage of these situations in fast-moving markets. In this
kind of market, you should have a limit order in place to
get out at break-even or at an acceptable loss just in case
you get lucky. At this point, even for a small loss it would
be worth getting out of this trade and waiting for the
market to calm down before putting in another one.

 *
 * A quick review of some adjustment rules:
• It is easier to adjust in a down market because you
get more for rolling down the call credit spreads.

 * It is harder to adjust in an up market because you
don’t get much for rolling up the put credit spread
and you bring the position closer to your downside
risk.
Trade the math: Don’t let Deltas go over 25 to 30.
When possible, adjust when the market is moving in
the opposite direction intraday. Adjust the puts
when the market rallies or adjust the calls when the
market dips.
Trade only what is in front of you and not what you
or anybody else thinks the market will do.
If you must speculate, assume the worst-case, not
the best-case, scenario.
If you must adjust, consider getting out at break-
even at the first chance available.
• You can always put in a new trade with better
strikes.

 * Buying to close half or a third of a condor can derive
from different motivations. One motivation is to mini-
mize loss. So instead of taking a loss on the entire posi-
tion, you take off part of the trade at a loss and keep
trading the rest of the condor with less money at risk.
Another reason to buy to close part of the condor is to
capture a quick small profit with the intention of grab-
bing a larger profit by remaining in the rest of the con-
dor for a longer period for perhaps greater profits. Of
course, you’ll be exposing yourself to further market
risk. But have a specific target in mind regarding time to
remain in the trade, the level of loss you are able to take
with the rest of the condor, and how much more gain
you are looking to capture as a trigger for closing the
trade.

 * A third strategy is buying to close all or part of one side
of the condor. When you’re making an adjustment, the
technique is to buy to close one spread and sell a more
expensive spread. When making an adjustment, you
want to buy to close the spread when it is worth less than what you sold it for originally so that you can cap-
ture a profit from that trade. There are three reasons a
spread will lose value: decreasing volatility, time decay,
and a change in market direction. When the market
moves quickly in one direction, the chances are that the
diminished value of the spread in the other direction
will become an opportunity to buy to close and then to
sell a different strike. If the reason the spread loses value
is because of decreased volatility or time decay, it might
be an opportunity to buy to close all or some of that
side of the condor. Volatility could always rise on one
hand, and on the other hand there might not be a lot left
for time value to fall any further to diminish the value
of that spread.
Buying to close one side of a condor makes sense
only in two scenarios. The first scenario is when you
have a strong conviction that the market will reverse
direction so that the value of the condor falls enough to
create profits. If correct, you will be able to buy to close
the spread at pennies on the dollar and then sell the
other spread at a higher price when the reversal occurs.
Although this works, don’t wait too long to close the
remaining spread. If after a few days you have still not
bought to close the remaining spread, if you were
wrong in your timing, you still have the other side to
hedge.

 *

 * page 153 day trading condors on volatility
 * However, there are a few very important exceptions
in which there is certainty regarding the rise and fall of
volatility. One exception occurs around earnings
announcements. This is one of those events written in
stone, and you can count on it four times a year. Hand
in hand with this certainty is the increase in implied
volatility the day before earnings are announced.
Everyone wants to take advantage of this certainty. The
universal question is, how?

 *
 * One way to increase the odds in your favor is to
trade the higher volatility. Remember that higher
volatility does not mean that the volatility number
before the earnings announcement is wrong. There is no
claim here that the prices are somehow overinflated. All
you know with near certainty is that volatility will be
lower the next day. The greater the drop in volatility,
the more the drop favors the seller who sold at a high
volatility, especially if the higher volatility was
unfounded by reports of an uninteresting earnings
announcement.

 *
 * page 156 with diagram The other way to increase the odds of success is to
trade the lower Delta. Compare the straddle to a condor
by using an example from Apple. With Apple at $250,
the at-the-money call and put for September 2010 each
cost $8 for a total cost of $16 ($1,600). An Apple
Condor with Deltas at 10 or lower has a range between
230 and 280. Whereas the straddle sellers and buyers
are debating whether the price could move $16, the
condor seller needs the price to move more than $30 in
either direction to lose any money. Looking at the
example shown in Figure 4.1, you can see that the strad-
dle depicted here would earn the buyer 80% returns
(with the seller obviously suffering equivalent losses) if
the price moved $30 in either direction, but the condor
seller would still break even.

 *  When sell-
ing condors for time decay, keep an eye on implied
volatility versus historical volatility. If the implied is
greater than the historical, the trade favors the seller,
using past behavior as an indication of future fluctua-
tions. This skew looks into the future instead of the past.

 *
 *  A stock
with a high price will have many different strike prices.
But it is not just the number of strikes that is significant.
You have to look at the Deltas and see how much they
jump from one strike to the next. The Delta should vary
by a few points from strike to strike. You don’t want to
see a Delta of 30 on one strike and 10 on the next. That
kind of range doesn’t give you a lot of choices. If the
jump is too large, the stock is not useful. You want to
see high open interest and volume in the options. The
window of profitability might be very small and you
want to be able to trade quickly and without losing too
much on the bid-ask spread.

 *
 * 
 *
 */